 business ethics are the moral principles that act as guidelines for the way a business conducts itself and its transactions.
 
 Acting ethically ultimately means determining what is “right” and what is “wrong.” Basic standards exist around the world that dictate what is wrong or unethical in terms of business practices.

For example, unsafe working conditions are generally considered unethical because they put workers in danger. An example of this is a crowded work floor with only one means of exit. In the event of an emergency – such as a fire – workers could become trapped or might be trampled on as everyone heads for the only means of escape.

Determining what practices are ethical or not is more difficult to determine if they exist in a grey area where the lines between ethical and unethical can become blurred.

Determining what practices are ethical or not is more difficult to determine if they exist in a grey area where the lines between ethical and unethical can become blurred.

For example, assume Company A works with a contact at Company B, an individual through which they negotiate all the prices for supplies they buy from Company B. Company A naturally wants to get the best prices on the supplies. When the individual from Company B comes to their home office to negotiate a new contract, they put him up in a top-tier hotel, in the very best suite, and make sure that all his wants and needs are met while he’s there.

In technical terms, the practice is not illegal. However, it might be considered a grey area – close to, but not quite, bribery – because the individual is then likely to be more inclined to give Company A a price break at the expense of getting the best deal for his own company.

Business ethics are important for every company. They keep workers safe, help trade and interactions between companies remain honest and fair, and generally make for better goods and services. Distinguishing what a company will and won’t stand for is not always the same for each organization, but knowing basic ethical guidelines is a key component of company management.